wandersong review:

0. summary/overview
1. graphics
2. gameplay
3. music/sound
4. difficulty
5. story
6. themes/tropes
7. experience/bugs
8. overall rating

1. graphics/style:
cute, not too complex, enough that each character has individuality while also fitting the style of the game and keeping it simple

2. gameplay:
innovative and cool. I really liked the singing mechanic, and i like how the mechanics evolved seamlessly throughout the game
-songs to interact with animals/environment
-different timbre/tonality for each "act"
-different aspects of music, percussion, strings, chords/counterpoint/harmony
-different ways to physically produce the sounds
and we could dance! and extra rewards can be earned in the form of dance moves which fit in so well with the rest of the game

3. music:
the music was incredible, obviously. This game is completely reliant on its music to carry the concept well, and it relies on skillful use of character/theme motifs and progressive complexity of the arrangements. the key of the scale changes but the scale itself will always have 8 notes. i loved that each of the settings colors matched the key of the music, so you could sing the colors you saw around you and harmonize with the music. i loved the "jingle recording" and composition aspects. I just really liked this game. the songs were so good. I could talk about it for hours. I might flesh this review out later as more ideas come to me, so stay tuned

4. difficulty:
this game was a bit on the easy side, but I can't complain. in my opinion, puzzle games are at their best when they are progressively difficult such that you never get truly lost or stuck, but you don't feel like you're bored either. I don't need every game to be dark souls level difficulty, so i enjoyed the level of the puzzles and the pace of the tutorial aspects. the difficulty curve felt natural and i enjoyed the entire game thoroughly. something else I noticed that kept things fresh is that while I had many different puzzles and tasks to complete, they mixed up the type of puzzle/game each act, so it never felt stale. in act 7 i was still just as engaged as act 1. i liked how for example, one setting was "adventure RPG" vibes, but then the next was metroidvania, with the kind of map that populates as you explore. each part of the game also had a sufficient token explanation for why it was set up that way, which was cute and shows effort. I appreciate the little things like that as well

5. story:
this one is always a big factor for me. I don't need games to have a great story, but the ones that really stick with me are the ones with a great story.
this story was, as you might expect, great. At the beginning I thought it was cute and refreshing to have a bard tackle quests instead of the hero, and as the game progressed and the story developed, the relationship between the main character (I named mine Pine, idk it seemed appropriate but it did take me like 6 tries lol) and Miriam was very sweet and wholesome. I thought their friendship was well developed and not forced at all. all of the character relationships were very gen

